---
layout: default
title: "Work - Jigar Patel"
---

I build web applications for living and for fun. I also like to tinker
with servers and linux boxes. Here are some of the
applications that I built -

##As a freelancer

###[Printfriendly](http://printfriendly.com)

![Printfriendly](/images/work/printfriendly.jpg)

>Printfriendly makes print friendly version of any web page.

I work on algorithm improvement. I have also built the Google Chrome
extension and implemented localization features in the application.

_(Technologies used - Javascript, Ruby on Rails)_

##Pet projects

###Newzupp

![Newzupp](/images/work/newzupp.jpg)

_Status: Inactive_

>Newzupp is an online news aggregator. It aggregates news from leading
social news sites like Reddit, Tweetmeme, Digg, Facebook and
Hackernews. Newzupp aggregates and then processes the stories to find
the most popular stories at any given time.

I built the app using PHP in April 2010 in 15 hours. It got featured as
[Programmableweb's Mashup of the day](http://www.programmableweb.com/mashup/newzupp) in April 2010.

In 2011, I migrated the app to Ruby on Rails 3.0 in 30 hours ([my experience](http://jigarpatel.in/blog/2011/02/28/how-i-built-newzupp-in-30-hours/)). [[Source code](https://github.com/jagira/newzupp)]

_(Technologies used - Ruby on Rails, APIs of Digg, Reddit, Tweetmeme,
Facebook and Hackernews)_

###Newzupp v2

![Newzupp v2](/images/work/newzupp_v2.png)

_Status: Inactive_

>Newzupp v2 is a service that allows users to share the urls that they
are currently on and leave notes. User can also see the notes left by
his friends on the current url. It is kind of like "_Foursquare of web_"

The application consists of a Rails backend and a Chrome browser
extension. The application uses MongoDB as the data store.

[Chrome BrowserExtension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/anlghlhbnaigodcegjhphedhkejdlgho)

I am in process of making the source code open.

_(Technologies used - Ruby on Rails, Javascript, Mongo DB, Browser Extensions,
Google Chrome API)_

###ReminderApp

_Status: Inactive_

>Schedule SMS reminders and send it to a person or a group of people.

_(Technologies used - Ruby on Rails, Javascript, Twilio API)_


##@ Vinsol
_(Hiding the names and urls because of NDA)_

###India's largest SMS based gaming site

I designed the architecture and developed the backend of the game. The
architecture was a _Service Oriented Architecure_ with 5 services
deployed on 2 large server boxes. I also integrated the backend with
almost all of the mobile carriers from India.

The service was designed to handle a load of more than 50 TPS. At its
peak it handle more than 50,000 players and it met its performance
requirements. (_Delivering text messages to all players within a
minute_)

_(Technologies used - Ruby on Rails, Linux)_

###One of the largest e-commerce sites from Nigeria

I developed the daily deals section for their upcoming business of
luxury deals in Nigeria.

_(Technologies used - Ruby on Rails, Javascript, HTML5)_

###A dutch online course and HR management system

A SAAS application with large codebase (150+ controllers, 100+ models).
I developed some features, fixed some bugs and implemented
internationalization.

_(Technologies used - Ruby on Rails, Javascript, I18n)_

###Local product search engine

An internal company project.

_(Technologies used - Ruby on Rails, Javascript, Sphinx)_
