---
author: jagira
date: '2011-04-06 07:18:00'
layout: post
slug: lessons-learned-31st-march-2011-6th-april-2011
status: publish
title: Lessons learned (31st March 2011 - 6th April 2011)
wordpress_id: '39'
---

**While building something, do not fantasize about end results**

I started a lot of projects, but all of them were disposed in a day
or two. The prime reason was my fantasy about the end results, be
it fame, money or success. Since this Saturday, I have stopped
doing so and am seeing good results.

**Company growth**

+ Every company, be it large or small, grows by increasing its
revenue per employee. In products and software industry, a company
can grow by increasing efficiency of employees and automating
repetitive tasks. In consulting industry, there are two ways

+ Increase per hour billing rates - This requires working on small
projects that pay more or working on high end projects that
guarentee higher rates. Employees must get smarter day by day to
handle this kind of growth.

+ Increase number of employees (the Indian way) - This comes with
lots of complexities. Larger organization needs a structure, which
needs to be gradually built.

**Learn egalitarianism from Americans**

+ One should not recognize social inequalities in dealing with
other people. At the same time one should not accept a stagnant
position in society as anyone can achieve anything.

+ One should avoid calling attention to titles and income as a way
of excersing power over others.

**Work experience is all about learning 'what not to do'**

You can not replicate somebody else's succcess, but you can save
yourself from committing mistakes made by them. Observe how the
management works, pick the things that pinch you or the things that
you consider are wrong, and do not repeat them in your next venture
(job or startup).

**Fancy titles do not matter. What you do matters the most. Most of the time the person with a fancy title will be doing the same work as you are.**

**Never ever hire people whose only job is to tell other people what to do. Also, never become such person.**

Â 



